hello everyone
my name is james and today i'm going to
explain to you how marvel comics
accidentally created a gay power couple
and despite their best efforts to avoid
it how disney might be giving us our
first
big screen gay superheroes going from
the holocaust to superheroes nothing
like tonal whiplash
well that's not entirely true
there's a sort of connection since we
will be talking about the scarlet witch
who is sometimes a mutant and
occasionally the daughter of magneto who
is
usually a survivor of the holocaust
let's get started
[Music]
i wasn't always a fan of comic books
outside of a batman trade paperback here
and there
you know self-contained stories i wasn't
ever really interested in the ongoing
developing stories of comics that have
stretched from now
all the way back to the 1930s but all
you really need to become a lifelong fan
is one character and because these
universes are
interactive that one character can
expose you
to other characters who can then expose
you to larger stories
and then before you know it you know
more about marvel or dc
characters than your own family i mean
there are worse habits all things
considered
meth keepsakes or dental problems marvel
comics over the years doesn't have the
best track record when it comes to gay
characters though
well most comic book companies don't
really
northstar barely gets any attention at
all loki's queerness is
swept under the rug at every opportunity
they get and iceman's recent gay
revelation was more of a screw you from
brian michael bendis to isaac perlmutter
than a
well thought out storyline though what a
wonderful up yours to pearl mudder it
was
if you don't know who isaac perlmutter
is don't worry i'll get to him
so you'd probably be kind of shocked to
find out that in current marvel comics
the most powerful magical person in the
marvel universe
is a gay character and his boyfriend is
literally the king of space
and those two characters billy kaplan
and teddy altman
better known as wicken and hulkling are
the most shipped couple
in all of marvel fandom and they are the
children of some
very powerful and very weird marvel
characters
[Music]
there aren't many marvel kids as in
characters who were born to
existing characters in the marvel
universe which is weird
because comics are soap operas and that
[ __ ] usually gets eaten up
but children in comics create a bit of a
weird problem
namely the timeline most things in
comics and marvel uses this
especially are left ambiguous as to when
exactly they happen it makes sense for
thor to look the same after 40 years but
iron man's only aged maybe 5 or 10 years
since the 1960s
marvel comics loves to use a sliding
scale of time
for instance references to tony stark's
capture and creation of the mark 1 iron
man suit change
depending upon when the particular story
was told
this could be the korean war vietnam or
conflicts in the middle east
which you'd think they'd use that as a
theme about the omni presence of the
american war machine
and the role that technological
innovations and weapons profiteering
plays into that
you know like stanley intended that was
before marvel corporate decided that
having a conflicted heroic character was
a bit too spicy
okay thank you nick anyway children of
existing characters
rock this flexible time scale because
they put hard dates on parents ages
the parents minimum age must become the
age that they were when the child was
born plus however old the child becomes
so what does that mean for billy and
teddy whose prominent marvel parents are
the scarlet witch
the vision and marvel aka the first
captain marvel
and especially how do these very strange
parents factor into how the characters
are built
for teddy this is easy imagine romeo and
juliet set in space
only juliet is a shape-shifting green
alien
the doomed relationship was tied to a
much larger event in marvel the kree
skrull war
we've already seen both of these species
in the movies featured prominently in
guardians of the galaxy
and captain marvel but in the comics the
script is flipped
the skrulls were the evil devious bad
guys and not
an analogy for refugees like they are in
the mcu and also
the kree scroll war started specifically
because marvel impregnated princess
inel of the skrull empire it should be
noted that marvel was never really that
popular though marvel tried to push his
significance to the credit of a small
cult following the real reason he was
kept in publication
was because dc had their own captain
marvel and marvel comics didn't want to
let them have the copyright to the name
dc's captain marvel would eventually
become shazam
but as soon as dc threw in the towel on
their captain marvel
marvel comics seem to give up on keeping
marvel
regularly published which is why he
more or less vanished from publication
history culminating in his canonical
death in 1982
his real contribution to marvel was his
legacy both in the way the title
of captain marvel was shuffled around to
a number of different major characters
and in carol danvers who began as a girl
power spin-off to captain marvel
ms marvel and ended up eclipsing the
original's popularity
eventually becoming the current reigning
captain marvel and
of course he left behind that dangling
thread about what happened to his wife
and child
when they ran away together at the end
of the crossover event
because the princess was never seen
again
by the time the young avengers come
around teddy altman is introduced as a
mutant with shape-shifting abilities
not out of the ordinary for mutant
powers really but there's a twist
it turns out that the skrull princess
actually sent her cree skrull hybrid son
then dorak viii renamed as teddy with
his
skrull nanny to hide him away from her
father
she remained with the autocracy and
eventually perished
furthermore as marvel himself was a
significant figure in the kree society
and the princess was the sole heir to
the skrull empire
that places teddy precariously in a
singular spot of
importance in two of the most
significant galactic societies in marvel
and if it's starting to seem like
there'd be literally
nobody in his dating league just wait
billy kaplan is the son of the scarlet
witch
sort of he like her is a mutant though
how he came to be is a okay
timeout you missed a pretty big pretty
significant part of her development okay
right but that doesn't really play into
bill let me finish
the scarlet witch may be a mutant and
her parentage has been in question for
most of her publication for a large part
it was believed that magneto was her
father though this would change
depending on
the writer or the decade and whether or
not disney and fox were in a spat
nick let me finish just come say this to
the right camera so i don't have to do
back and forth editing so much
that means i have to put on pants yes
this is youtube and i don't want to be
demonetized again
so you do have to put on pants all right
give me a second
what did you just do i put on pants
james
jesus the things i do for you
so as i was saying before being rudely
interrupted by the pants please
it's not entirely clear if she is or
isn't a mutant as per details in her
most recent solo title
regardless of her status as a mutant her
mutant powers called hex magic
are secondary to her status as both a
nexus being
and a genetically altered conduit to the
primordial god
kithon which grants her access to his
reality rewriting chaos magic
which itself is ambiguous and it is
because of this magic
as well as her own study of witchcraft
and not necessarily her potential mutant
powers that she was able to
conceive her children and then cast them
through time and space to be raised
uh separately by two completely unaware
families oh
thank god all right so very few
characters
in marvel have had as many changes and
tweaks made to their powers as the
scarlet witch
originally yes she started out as a
mutant but she was
rescued by magneto who recruited her and
her twin brother quicksilver
into the brotherhood of evil mutants at
this time her powers were
as nick said hex magic after abandoning
the brotherhood she joined the avengers
with quicksilver
her powers were basically the most
silver age thing
ever essentially the avengers would get
caught in a sticky situation with a bad
guy
and would then depend on her hexes as a
last-minute
ex-machina moment in every issue
because comics unlike other characters
villains and heroes in which meticulous
care was given to explaining how their
powers worked
wanda's abilities were left as vague as
possible
even sometimes to the extent of becoming
a liability to the team
over time however it seems that wanda
and quicksilver's abilities were
inconsistent and sometimes failed
altogether
deciding to return to their home the
fictional nation of transia
with the key landmark of wundergor
mountain the maximoff twins learned that
they were not
as they thought born to romani parents
but rather
adopted they were born in a genetic
facility
inside wunderguard mountain both of them
were taken from birth and genetically
redeveloped by the high evolutionary
i need to explain who he is please don't
james i need to
maybe in another video anyway due to
genetic re-encoding by the high
evolutionary wando is accidentally made
into the living conduit and avatar of
the primordial god chithon
who functions as sometimes a god of
chaos
other times just a god of the underworld
but he's
usually overshadowed by other demonic
figures such as mephisto who features
later
this was the first time that it was
really indicated that the scarlet witch
was more powerful than it originally
seemed
this was pivotal when chithon possessed
wanda to try and return to the world so
that he could unmake it
this plan was thwarted but it was very
clear that wanda was
a potential threat so the avengers began
looking into options of how to safeguard
her
eventually in a crossover with the
fantastic four wanda encounters agatha
harkness
who is kind of america's number one
witch agatha believes she has a solution
for wanda's unpredictability
where she uses witchcraft as a conduit
to first of all
help wanda focus her powers and have
more control over them
secondly witchcraft gives wanda a
connection to the natural world
where she can prepare hexes in advance
and have
much more control over the outcome
though she was unnatural in witchcraft
wando's priorities were always the
avengers
and she never devoted much time to the
study of witchcraft with agatha
agatha however served as a guide to
assist her
with her abilities whenever she could oh
now's a good time to mention a mortise
right
no nick it's in the script though
i'm sorry okay ongoing problem for the
avengers was kang the conqueror
a time traveler but there's a version of
kang
where he goes so far into the future
that he becomes immortus
who is kind of a morally ambiguous
micromanager of time
sometimes friend sometimes foe depends
on the version of immortus because
there are many and after much will they
won't they the scarlet witch gets
married to
the vision because comics but it's not
like all of this happened over two
issues
these are stories that have been crafted
over two decades of weekly titles
granted this was when comic books
actually took their time
to pay off plot lines instead of trying
to cram everything together into eight
issue runs that just changed the status
quo every month
by the time the vision and the scarlet
witch get married on the urging of a
mortise
all of the pieces have been adequately
set in place for years before this
so wanda and the vision get married and
things are going okay but
then there's this big pocket of magical
energy that some evil witches want to
use to make a
evil spell gonna do bad stuff and again
is like
hey wanda this is a this is a bad idea i
need you
to channel the energy so they don't get
it and rwanda's like
what's the worst that could happen so
this power makes wanda so
well powerful that she's able to
actually rewrite the very fabric of
reality
and because wanda's newly wed to a man
with no genitals
she uses it to make herself pregnant
this is also when magneto shows up for
the birth of the children and he reveals
in a true mooring moment that he was the
father of the maximoff twins
you are the father but wanda doesn't
just want to be a homemaker like sue
storm
she wants it all she's going to be a
part-time avenger and a full-time mom
so when the west coast avengers need a
reserve member to help out
wanda and vision tag along but the thing
is
weird things start happening with
wanda's twins billy and tommy
the sitter sometimes just can't find
them for instance
meanwhile after the vision tried to take
over all the computers in the world to
become the human version of the cree's
supreme intelligence
a couple of world governments decide
that he's a bit of a threat capture him
and completely disassemble him which you
know
wanda's not that pleased with the
avengers then gaslight her into thinking
that she has nothing to be upset about
because the vision was a robot anyway
you can't fall in love with a robot
synthesizoid right so with the vision
rebuilt as little more than a catatonic
zombie
wanda comes under a vast amount of
duress because he then
agrees with the avengers telling wanda
that her feelings for him are irrelevant
and then he dumps her wanda now has
nothing but her beloved children who
it is revealed vanish when wanda isn't
thinking about them
that's why the babysitters were so
stressed out cue agatha harkness
so megan is like okay girl sorry but
your kids don't exist turns out that the
energy you absorbed was
two fragments of mephisto's soul who
who's like the satan of marvel
oh okay there are a few satan analogies
in marvel and they all hate each other
but
yes mafesto is the big one he was
fighting franklin richards son of reed
richards from the fantastic four
and franklin's like super powerful and
he managed to split mephisto's soul into
six
fragments with mephisto himself only
possessing one-sixth of his power
sounds like a certain lord of the
voldemort variety like many things jk
rowling writes it appears in the comic
book decades earlier
and all the while wanda and the west
coast avengers have been fighting a
villain named master pandemonium
a man who after a car crash made a deal
with mephisto
to do his bidding as long as he could
survive
mephisto decides he's going to replace
this guy's arms and legs with
demons and that in order to keep his
abilities master pandemonium has to
reclaim the
five fragments of his soul
which have been lost in the car crash
you see mephisto the king of lies
was deceiving master pandemonium into
finding his own soul fragments
because he didn't want all of hell to
know that he'd lost so much of his
power two of these soul fragments were
the children of the scarlet witch which
is how we get
baby arms right master pandemonium
while the scarlet witch was distracted
snuck into her house and absorbed her
babies into him which
mephisto then proceeded to absorb back
into himself to regain his full power
which master pandemonium was not happy
about but
then the breaks so then billy and tommy
sol somehow managed to be distributed
back into the world as
two children in the greater manhattan
area
well kind of first what happened is
agatha erased all of wanda's memories of
her children which
kind of worked but she still ended up
going into a brief spiral
cue the rest of the avengers who were
like why is this happening
and because they all collectively get
the world's worst friend award
they basically just ignore her grief
ignore her in general
which allowed magneto to step in and
offer her fatherly support in this
trying time
but instead he uses her to help him
create a new brotherhood of evil mutants
because of course he does
but this doesn't even matter because the
whole thing was a ploy by immortus
so that he could use her to safeguard
the earth 616 timeline the
normal marvel comics timeline from
converging with other timelines and
alternate realities
he planned to put wanda into an eternal
hypnotic trance
so that he could use her as a nexus
being and by proxy of her
he could choose which timeline was true
and filter out which ones were false
the whole ordeal with the vision wanda's
children the vision's dismemberment
her ensuing mental duress and now
magneto's ploy
was all puppeteered by a mortis
so he could have wanda in this state of
emotional fragility
it was during this time while under the
control of immortus by proxy of magneto
that she briefly created a reality where
she still had her children
demonstrating that she didn't even
really need mephisto's power to do this
it's believed that it was at this point
that the twin souls were sent out to two
separate expecting mothers
meaning that they are the children of
the scarlet witch and not
actually shards of mephisto now
maybe it's not clear don't think too
much about it because marvel hasn't
really made a convincing explanation
or any explanation i mean i could make
one that's convincing marvel call me and
all of this took place from the 1970s to
the early 1990s
eventually in the 2005 mini-series
avengers disassembled
wanda got her memories back it was none
too pleased that the avengers took them
from her
and blamed them for the loss of her
children in her rage
she killed multiple avengers before
falling into a catatonic state
and being whisked away by magneto for
safe keeping
before this breakdown though she'd
actually met a bullied young teenager
named billy
who idolized her what wanda hadn't
realized was that this boy
was the reincarnated soul of one of her
lost sons
who once the avengers disbanded after
the events have disassembled
went on to help create a new team
of young avengers
[Music]
we meet billy and teddy as we know them
today in young avengers issue number one
released in april of 2005 immediately
after wanda's major breakdown
the pair have joined the young avengers
in hopes of picking up the slack left
behind after the avengers proper
disbanded
the team is originally comprised of
wiccan hulkling
kate bishop patriot and iron lad later
on in this run the team would also be
joined by cassie lang ant-man's daughter
a young version of the vision and tommy
wanda's other son
their first story sees them facing kang
the conqueror with advanced knowledge
from the time traveling iron lad
who is actually a young version of kang
who is a younger version of immortus
i never said this got simpler the
biggest news getter of this initial run
was of course the introduction of billy
and teddy
we didn't know that they were the
ultimate power couple just yet but they
were a teenage gay couple smack dab in
the middle of a marvel comic
so they got a lot of attention that
almost wasn't the case though
when alan heinberg the creator of the
team initially pitched the idea to
marvel execs they
weren't too fond of the idea of having a
gay couple in an avengers title
in fact word came down from isaac
perlmutter the reclusive ceo of marvel
known for being an arch-conservative
racist homophobe
that there should absolutely not be a
gay couple
in an avengers title they did like the
idea of a young hulk and thor though
billy's original superhero title was the
asgardian
so the compromise was that teddy
hulkling
being a shapeshifter would actually be a
girl
who shifts into the big tough hulkling
when it's time to fight
this is the only reason that wicked and
hulkling actually made it into
publication
but there was a wrinkle see ellen
heinberg was a well-known gay writer who
had written for sex in the city
so when word got out that he'd be
writing the new avengers series
the gay press interviewed him as much as
possible and he made sure to tell them
that he would be writing a
gay couple so now the media was flush
with stories about how marvel would be
featuring gay avengers and how awesome
and progressive marvel was
they practically got handed a glad award
before a single page was printed
so now marvel editorial was in a pickle
keep going with the agreed-upon
shape-shifter angle or revert to the
original idea and have gay characters
one decision would massively piss off
their ceo
but the other would massively piss off a
segment of the population that was
currently making queers folk the most
expensive show on tv to buy ads for gays
have a lot of buying power you see with
the whole no children thing
so they decided that teddy would remain
a boy
oops but then word came down from
perlmutter to stop the run at six issues
he would not have gays queering up his
comics
bit of an overreaction considering billy
and teddy were only a small part of a
large ensemble team
the thing is though money trumps hate
almost
every time and when the pre-sale numbers
came in for the young avengers the run
was extended to 12.
and this time with leverage alan
heinberg decided that he'd make these
six
issues all about billy and teddy's
relationship
the super skrull arrives and kills
teddy's mom
after revealing to teddy that she wasn't
in fact his birth mother
refer back to the cree scrawl war
shenanigans now
the super scrub not important the super
scroll
is a skrull who was made to fight the
fantastic four on top of being a
shapeshifter he also has the abilities
of the fantastic four
an insane amount of things were actually
introduced in that fantastic four
that would later have importance in
other areas of marvel
this created a problem for disney when
fox owned the team as that meant a very
wide range of characters that were
important to the rest of marvel
actually belonged to fox which is why we
didn't get captain marvel until disney
bought fox
furthermore super skrull himself isn't
very well known he doesn't have an
interesting publication history and
he actually isn't really that important
and why are we talking about him
even though marvel continues to publish
him without any backstory
as if we ought to know who he is okay
i'm finished
anyway the super skrull kills teddy's
mom but then feels bad about it
after the cree armada show up on earth
to kidnap teddy and take him back to the
kree empire
where he will be the prince of space the
skrulls also want him though
and a mini episode of game of thrones
plays out until the super skrull agrees
to
shapeshift into teddy and submit himself
to the invading forces
so that teddy can stay on earth with
billy and his friends
after this run completed again with
fantastic sales
marvel editorial wanted heinberg back to
do more
but he was a bit busy producing episodes
of grey's anatomy and writing wonder
woman for dc he'd eventually go on to
write the good wonder woman movie
so there was a long period in which
marvel would insert the young avengers
especially billy and teddy
into other titles in order to draw
attention and sales
secret invasion civil war dark rain
siege if there was a marvel event worth
reading
our boys made it into the pages
somewhere finally in 2010 heinberg
agreed to come back to marvel to write
the children's crusade
a direct sequel to his young avengers
run that would also bring back the
scarlet witch after five years of not
being in publication
in this series magneto learns that the
young avengers are going to search for
wanda
who had vanished after the events of
house of m when she completely rewrote
reality to give everyone their best life
and eventually eliminated the vast
majority of mutants from the marvel
universe
magneto also learns that wiccan and
speed are reincarnations of wanda's
children
he tracks them down and informs them
that he is their grandfather
and that he's going to help them find
wanda because
he wants to try and be a good dad now
they do eventually find her or
so they think but the avengers attempt
to apprehend her before wiccan teleports
magneto wanda and the young avengers to
wundegor mountain they soon realize
though that the scarlet witch is
actually a doombot
robots made by doctor doom in case that
was an obvious prompting the young
avengers and magneto to journey to
latveria with the avengers following
close behind
wiccan eventually finds the real wanda
apparently devoid of her powers without
any memory of her life
and engaged to marry dr doom but of
course it turns out that dr doom only
wants wanda for her incredible power
and has been keeping her lost in a brain
fog until he could figure out
how to transfer the power to himself he
finally manages this
a battle ensues he's defeated and it's
revealed that he was controlling wanda
when she committed the horrible acts of
avengers disassembled
because if wanda is doing something bad
she is absolutely
being controlled by someone else always
this was also alan heinberg's way of
retconing the scarlet witch into being a
hero again
since he'd idolized the character since
he was a kid
what he's gay gay stan the scarlet witch
i don't make the rules
though the avengers offer to let her
rejoin their team
she rejects them stating that after
years of defining herself as magneto's
daughter
quicksilver's sister or the vision's
wife she wants to find out
who she is on her own terms the only
label she does embrace is mother
wrapping her arms around the children
she never knew
this was actually one of stan lee's
favorite moments in marvel comics
along with the death of gwen stacy as
the decades-long saga of the scarlet
witch finally ends with her being
allowed to just be happy
the saga of the young avengers is left
wide open and the series ends
with an image that's become so iconic
you've probably seen it even if you've
never held a comic book in your life
billy and teddy having been through so
much finally kiss
a full page panel making comic book
history and creating a generation of
shippers across the internet and around
the world
the young avengers would return a few
years later now written by kieran gillen
here it is revealed that not only is
teddy the king of space
but billy is the demiurge the sentient
life force of earth's biosphere that
seeded the earth with pieces of its own
essence
giving birth to the elder gods eons ago
essentially the creator of all life on
earth
so we have the king of space and the
embodiment of life itself
and there are a couple only in comics
but this run didn't sell as well as the
originals
whether it was disinterest in the
storytelling style the fall of comic
book stores or the fact that marvel
didn't market it worth a damn
didn't really matter it was enough
reason for pearl mudder who was already
losing his grasp over marvel to disney
to shove billy and teddy to the
sidelines while most of the other young
avengers got solo titles or were
featured prominently in other teams
billy and teddy were mostly ignored
they'd pop up here there
but never make a real impression
until they recently became media
darlings once again when 15 years after
their introduction
they became featured players in 2020's
empire storyline
in this teddy literally does become the
king or
should i say emperor of space coronated
null
and though the imperial court was not
altogether pleased with his relationship
with billy forbidding it at first
because billy's from earth not because
they're gay they did eventually have a
giant
royal wedding in the middle of space a
happily ever after
for marvel's premier gay couple
but is it really
[Music]
so one thing i talk a lot about in my
videos is the representation of queer
people in media
marvel has had a bumpy road actually
presenting us
queer characters that stick around
there's been a few previously
established characters at marvel coming
out over the last couple of years
on top of existing bisexuals like dawkin
wolverine sun
and deadpool hercules was alluded to be
bisexual in the past and is now in a
same-sex romance with novar
also a young avenger wolverine himself
is bisexual in an alternate universe and
colossus is gay in an alternate universe
alternate universe being important
contexts here iceman both the old and
young version
were outed as full on gay in a storyline
that
some found touching and some found toxic
basically jean grey a psychic outs him
to
himself this was mostly a parting [ __ ]
you from brian michael bendis
who had been trying to add queer
characters to marvel comics for years
but pearl mudder wouldn't let him so as
he was fixing to leave the company
he made a mainline x-men character gay
and following the
outline made by heinberg whipped up a
storm of publicity about it so that
marvel would
receive maximum backlash if they tried
to shove him back into the closet
tommy scarlet witch's other son is also
now
gay or bisexual and in a relationship
with prodigy who at one point tried to
snatch teddy away from billy
america chavez is a lesbian also you
keep forgetting about that other
x-men the new one the little green one
whose straight friend misses new
opportunity
to bring up his sexuality yeah what's
his name
i couldn't tell you which is part of the
problem right
marvel loves pushing identity but not
personality
you may hear about any number of queer
marvel characters on whatever geek.com
website but
they quickly fade into obscurity once
the sales bump has flattened
the press has gone away and marvel
shifts back to focusing on iron man
spider-man and wolverine
at the end of the day it's also
disingenuous
beyond that it seems to be presenting
queerness with a heteronormative
objective
that is when queer characters are
presented as queer
either from being outed or from being
out upon creation
the objective seems to be to make them
as straight as possible
that way they're queer but they don't
offend the straights
and this isn't just a thing in comic
books queer characters
seem to always have their queerness
revolve around another character
you see this a lot in television where
given that a cast will usually only have
maybe two gay characters
they will inevitably be drawn together
it's the media version of oh my god i
have a gay friend you'd be perfect
together this idea is so
permeative in culture that many queer
people
try to force themselves into a
relationship with potentially toxic
partners
because they think the only way to
properly be queer
is to be mated with a fellow queer
and due to the fact that the gatekeepers
of media are still largely heterosexual
white men
when they do deign to present queer
characters their limited
understanding of queer identity is
exclusively linked to white
cis gay relationships rather than the
internal process of thinking outside of
the hetero-hegemony the queer people
gay cis men and women specifically are
being badgered into
which don't get me wrong many people
earnestly do want to get married and
have a
normal white picket fence life with you
know two and a half kids and a dog
the problem is that this kind of
suburbanization is favorable
to corporate interests as people like
this are easy to develop marketing
strategies for
specifically mortgages loans cars and
other domestic products needed to keep
up with the joneses
as someone who works in marketing i know
that my fellow
straight sis marketers banged their
heads against the wall trying to figure
out
how to appeal to the city queers they've
figured out the white sis gays
gaycations gay baby clothes and rainbows
rainbows rainbows but everyone else
well marketing executives look at every
other letter in the lgbtqia
2 plus spectrum and think uh they're
just too hard to sell to and they don't
have that much money anyway
and if there's no companies trying to
convince you to buy their stuff
there's not likely anyone making media
for you but they haven't given up
instead there is a vested corporate
interest in convincing queer people of
all shades
to want the lifestyle they've already
figured out how to market to
come pride month if you're friends with
the right kind of people you'll hear
these friends call this phenomenon
rainbow capitalism and
well there's a whole video on that
coming later another factor behind the
push to marry off gay characters in
fiction stems from the need to
de-sexualize queer characters
gay men especially keep in mind that the
gay panic of the 20th century was rooted
less in the idea that homosexuality was
unnatural
the real heart of these modern phobias
stemmed from the idea that gay men would
use sex and gratuitous sexual pleasure
to corrupt otherwise proper citizens and
neighborhoods
it was called the lavender panic the
gays are coming for your husbands girls
but there's a separation between the
discrimination of gay men and gay women
lesbians are of course discriminated
against
but it's a bit different for gay men
specifically because cis gay men possess
the threat of penetration
though anal sex is far from the only act
the two gay men can get up to
it seems to be the only one that
straight people are obsessed with
whereas a homophobic person may have a
hatred of lesbians
with gay men there is the threat of anal
penetration
and as a result demasculinization
and even if a fictional character's sex
life never factors into the plot
or components of their personality the
idea of penetrative sex
still exist as a subliminal factor in
the viewer's mind
single gays therefore are not cute or
wholesome like their
gay dad counterparts they are seen as
sexually deviant and especially after
the 1980s
threats to a person's health whereas
straight single characters are allowed
to be as
single and promiscuous as they come look
at wolverine iron man
she-hulk daredevil gambit spider-man i
mean the most
i've ever felt seen in a comic book was
dc's new 52 run of midnighter
where he was literally on grindr having
on panel gay sex with hookups
and living his best single life
i mean i wish that was my life
single gays men and women seem to
represent this kind of
freedom sexual and otherwise that older
creators and readers
are really uncomfortable with so now
that it's okay to get gay married
they can remove this element of freedom
by forcing them into a historically
heterosexual institution
suddenly scary gays are just like the
straits
in the same boring sexless marriages the
fight for equal rights and
representation should not be focused
around convincing the heteros that
hey these outsiders are just like you
and that means they're okay
because then we're on a very slippery
slope when the hegemony
encounters an outsider who isn't just
like them
and making no attempt to be the outsider
is rejected
or pressured to assimilate the focus of
representation needs to be focusing on
appreciating individuals differences
rather than focusing on finding areas of
common ground
take billy and teddy for instance even
they fit the mold of
high school nerd and high school jock
they just happen to be gay
and superheroes but over the years as
more and more writers have gotten their
hands on them
they've become only that gay superheroes
gay characters have their personalities
stripped away
i'm not sure whether it's because the
straight writers tend to view gay
as a personality or whether it's because
they're so occupied
making the character presentable to
editors and audiences that they
forget to make them interesting as a
result the character is made to be as
sterile as possible so that the majority
straight white sis audience isn't
offended
think of it like how people say that
carol danvers is a [ __ ]
but tony stark is just snarky and
determined
traits as they are seen in straight
white cis men
are charming but they are more
negatively received
in women queer folk and characters of
color
something else that's very important is
how marvel and dc still sell their
comics to comic book stores
store owners get the feedback from the
customers they see
in store not necessarily the majority of
people who buy comics
especially now that they're available
widely through apps
the people you're most likely to see in
a comic book store
are heteronormative white guys in fact
the culture of most comic book stores is
considered so toxic
that readers who aren't white straight
guys have gravitated toward buying their
comics on apps like comixology to avoid
it
like full disclosure i used to follow
billy and teddy religiously when they
would pop into the background of a comic
i would buy it
and then i would invest in the whole
series they weren't even involved i was
just so starved for the characters
but the reason i kind of fell out of
touch with these guys is because i
started to recognize
that they were essentially ciphers that
i was superimposing myself
onto as i developed as more of a
distinct person
i stopped identifying with these
characters because they were presented
in such broad strokes
that without me imagining myself in
their places billy specifically
and without an actual distinct
personality to reel me in
i didn't really have anything to keep me
interested and that's because when these
characters are written
at least most of the time they're not
being written by writers who love them
who want to expand upon their identities
and build a mythology around them
they're being written by writers for
whom they are just another wrong on the
ladder
they want to write spider-man iron man
thor deadpool make the jump to dc and
write for batman
the characters they grew up idolizing
and because queer media is so starved
for representation
organizations like glaad will give an
award to any writer who features queer
characters
a nice feather in their cap and a quick
boost to getting to the characters that
they actually want to write
looking back at billy and teddy's
publication there isn't a whole lot of
character there
except what the reader places upon them
we know for a fact that marvel is
uncomfortable with separating them
whenever you do see them apart they're
basically a tool to be used by a team
and nothing more there's no singular
development for them
they only really exist to be put back
together
so that they can be the gay couple
essentially they're
gays who are character baited when
straight creators write them
and characters like loki they write them
from their own heterosexual frames of
reference
they have internalized the message of
they're just like me
and don't seem to make a significant
attempt to make them like
actual queer people and in this feedback
loop queer readers of comic books
develop their own concept of queerness
as what a straight creator
is trying to depict and when queer
creators are brought into marvel
they're given a quick stint with a given
character like chavez or iceman
and then when the title comes to an end
they're quickly
shut out from any further role in the
company even as they're writing their
queer characters
they have editors breathing down their
necks making sure this is the most
palatable depiction of queerness
possible
they can't authentically even tell
stories about their queer experience
because they have to write queerness
that is
directed at appealing
to homophobic editors meanwhile this
whole process focused
so hard on making gay men and women as
straight as possible
that we forgot to acknowledge that trans
people exist
and since media has focused on almost
exclusively portraying trans people who
fit the binary gender mold
we're ignoring non-binary and
genderqueer people
society convinces us to take what is
different
and extraordinary about us and try to
hide it
so that we can be normal and ordinary
but
doing so we lose what makes us special
we lose our superpower because trust me
queer people have superpowers we have
the superior durability
to withstand years of torment and abuse
we have the telepathy needed to find
each other no matter where we might be
we have the super strength needed to
fight back against systems set up to
crush us
we have the power of mind control
influencing entire societies even when
they don't acknowledge that we exist
we have the ability to transform and
become the people we were always meant
to be
and we have the power of regeneration to
close wounds believe too deep to heal
and go on with our lives every queer
person who gets up in the morning and
goes out into the world is a superhero
we may not wear capes though some of us
might
but we accomplish shocking feats
whether we're out and proud or hidden
surviving in a land that tries to
exterminate us like so many of marvel's
x-men
we are amazing astounding fantastic
spectacular
super and i think people like that need
to
show up in comics or movies or tv shows
queer superheroes who are every bit as
astounding in everyday life as they are
when they're fighting crime or saving
the world
it can be done maybe that will be the
mcu's billy and teddy
or maybe it's a hero yet to be created
by a queer artist using their power to
tell stories
maybe it's you because we all have a
superpower
and we need to use them to make life a
little bit easier for every queer kid
across the world who needs a hero to
look up to
i know it's a lot to take on but we have
to
because as a great man once wrote
with great power comes great
responsibility
[Music]
you